A little quick recap of how
far we've come together.
We've got ourselves a homepage
that has a hero image,
it's got a teaser about our products.
We have a blog that is running
off of Astro content collections,
we've got a shop that's
running off third party data.
It's got React components talking to
solid components using nano stores,
all partially hydrated so that we're not
wasting any kilobytes that we don't need.
And we've got a marked down page, and
I think all that's left to do is the thing
that no company is gonna let us get
away without which is a newsletter list.
So we're gonna add a newsletter capture,
and we want this
newsletter capture to work with standard
like post submission of a form.
So we're not gonna make it client side,
we're not gonna escape with a React
component or a solid component to
handle it on click on the client side.
We are instead going to use hybrid
rendering or server side rendering for
our newsletter components so that we
can submit directly using the platform,
and then catch those submissions, and
do whatever it is we need to do with them.
To sort of do that,
we first need to talk a little bit about
the different rendering modes in Astro.
So let me just get over
to server-side rendering.
And the way that this works is Astro,
by default,
is going to precompile everything,
they call it pre-rendering.
So they will look at everything in
your site, they will prerender it, and
they will output as much of
it as they can statically.
And in my opinion,
this is the right default because again,
the vast majority of the things
we build are static content.
Even if we get them in very dynamic
ways from API's through a lot of data
crunching, whatever it is,
what we're ultimately putting out
on the screen is static content.
It's not gonna change between users,
it updates on a very active site maybe
once or twice a day, maybe once or twice
an hour if it's a really active page.
And because of that,
static is a good default, but
that's not always the right choice,
sometimes you need more.
If you do have a use case where you wanna
do server rendering like a form submission
or something where the data
updates to the second,
then you can turn on
server rendering in Astro.
Now they have an option for output
server which puts you into SSR mode.
However, this puts the entire
site into SSR mode.
So it can be the right call,
depending on what you're building.
If everything you're building
is behind a login and
it will be completely customized based on
the user for every single page load, and
the data's always different, then a server
rendered site might be the right call.
And if that's the case you
are covered with this.
But what I find really exciting is
this new mode of hybrid rendering, and
the way that hybrid rendering works, let
me see if I can find the actual note here.
Here this is the one.
The static pre-rendering by default.
So this is, I think,
probably where I would be looking to go.
First, it's where we're gonna go
today is this hybrid rendering mode.
And so what hybrid rendering means is
that by default everything is statically
rendered just like if you didn't
choose one of these options.
But you can export a const
called pre-render and
say false, and
this will tell everything in your
site except this page
to statically render.
And that's really exciting because it
means that you can selectively opt-in to
server rendering as you need it.
So, this follows that same
mindset of partial hydration and
only using code when you need code.
It's the same general idea here.
And I should clarify that
when you use the SSR mode,
you are able to export
a const of prerender = true.
But what I found when I started using it
is that when I'm in server mode, I end up
exporting prerender = true on almost every
page in my project, except for one or two.
So I really like hybrid mode where we
flip that, it's static by default and
then I turn on server
rendering when I need it.
So we are gonna use this static
pre rendering by default.
To actually add this, we are going to add
this little block of config into our site.
So I'm gonna open up
the Astro config here,
and we're gonna add in this little block.
So inside the config, I'm going to add
an output and mark that as hybrid.
And then below that, we're gonna
turn on an experimental flag so
that we can put hybrid output.
Set as true.
I'm not sure when this will be turned off,
but at some point in the future,
I believe all you're gonna need is
the output hybrid for this feature or for
this functionality to work.
Now that we have changed this, actually
this is something I think is really cool
about Astro is that it notices that
your configuration updated and
it'll restart for you.
This is a this is one of those tiny little
DX improvements that makes such a big
difference.
Because I don't know about y'all,
but I have spent so
much time in my career refreshing
a page going, why isn't this working?
And then I'll go back and I'll save it.
I'll turn it off and I'll turn it back on,
just to realize that I was either
refreshing the wrong environment, or
that I needed to restart the dev server
to see that change get picked up.
So little things that save those
very frustrating small moments.
Now that we've got this running,
functionally nothing really changes,
our site is still operating
as our site always did.
These are all statically rendered pages,
but
now we have an option to
add a server rendered page.
So I'm gonna go into our pages folder,
create a new file and
call this one newsletter.astro.
And add some frontmatter like you do,
get our layout from layouts/default,
no page, we want page this time.
And then we're also going to
export const prerender = false.
And that's going to tell Astro that
this is a server rendered page.
So then add in our layout, I think.
I got the form,
I put the form into the workshop assets so
that we don't have to
write a form from scratch.
So we can grab that form,
we're going to first add in a heading.
So an h1 with a class of heading and
we'll say,
get the sandwich newsletter, and
then below, we'll paste in that form.
And then we're also
gonna need some styles,
so we can head up to our assets yet
again and grab those styles out of there.
And now that we've done that,
we have, A functioning site.
So we can go to our newsletter here.
Did I forget to save this?
What is going on?
I know what's going on.
There's a class that I'm gonna use later,
so
make sure you add the newsletter visible
so that that is visible in there.
So this is standard newsletter form,
you can fill it out and you can subscribe.
And so it submits.
But something important happened here.
So I have this set as method post, right?
And if I didn't have
it set as method post,
it would put the values from
the form into the query string.
Because it would be submitted as a get
request, which would allow us to,
grab it using JavaScript and
send it off somewhere.
And that's a perfectly valid way
to handle some of these things.
But putting somebody's email address in a
URL, maybe not the best idea in the world
just because there are ways for people to
get out that, you don't really wanna leak
people's emails, that can cause
you some problems as a business.
So we're using the post, so that it
will submit to the page as the body of
the request as opposed
to a query parameter.
And the next thing we need to do is
actually do something with this.
What's happening?
How are we getting to this?
And you just kind of don't have any
indication that anything has happened.
So the next thing we need to
do is actually process this.
So to handle a form submission,
we have a nice,
I was actually very pleasantly surprised
by how pleasant or how nice this API is.
So I get a message, and
the way that we're doing this just so
everybody's clear on why I'm
creating a message here.
I'm going to take the name and e-mail that
gets submitted, put them into a message,
and then print those on the screen.
And that's how we're gonna
handle the form submission.
Again, we're not going to
set up a newsletter service.
It's a lot of steps, you've got to
have accounts, I don't know that any
of them have an easy free setup,
so that's more of an exercise for
find their API Doc's and you would
submit to their API from this process.
But for us, we're just gonna show
that the submission actually worked.
So we're gonna grab that message and
then we can say if Astro
request method, so
this is similar to astro.props,
it's part of that global Astro object,
and I want to check if it is post.
And if it's post, I get to do stuff.
So I'm gonna try to do a few things, and
if something goes wrong,
I will catch that error,
and then we'll just log it,
so we can console.error.
And so in here, what I wanna do is I wanna
get the data out of the Astro request.
So I'm gonna get astro.request, and
then we can use form data,
which is a browser API.
So that's part of the request
object includes a body,
you can get the form data from the body.
And then I want the name,
which is data.get and the input name.
So these names here
are the ones that we're using.
So name, we get the name,
email, we get email.
Great.
Then this is where you
would save the user info to
your newsletter service,
make this bigger again.
And then down below,
we're just gonna update this message,
so we're gonna say subscribed as well,
we'll say the name with the email.
Great.
And then down here in the body itself,
we're gonna add a new section between
the header and the form itself.
And we're gonna use a little helper
that I like from Astro called ClassList.
And so what ClassList does is
sometimes you have a value in your
code that makes a class conditional and
you end up writing these really just
kind of messy looking ternaries.
Or you have to declare
your classes outside and
then kind of pass them in as a variable.
And Astro just was like,
don't bother this is fine.
So instead, what you can do is
you can just set the class name.
So in this case,
we want to a class of success.
That one's always true.
But then whether or not it's visible
is it gonna be dependent on whether or
not we have a message.
So we can say only add the visible
class if there's a message set.
And then inside, we can set the message
itself and we'll just boop.
And then we can add a link just
to the newsletter page itself.
And this will get us out of
the post request and start over.
So it's kinda like clearing everything.
Then I'm also going to
update this newsletter here,
and I'm gonna change this to a class list.
And we're going to have
newsletter that's always on but
then visible in this case Is dependent
on there not being a message.
So just the opposite.
So if the form has been submitted,
don't show the form, show the message.
If there is no message, if it wasn't
a form submission, show the form.
So a little bit of logic,
all rendered on the server.
And then once we've done that, we save.
Head back out to our browser, and
you can see because this was submitted,
it actually picked up that post request
and is now showing us the details.
And so, the next thing I wanna
do is I want to show that
this does in fact work without JavaScript.
So we're gonna disable JavaScript,
we're going to add one of these.
And it still works, riight?
And so this is like,
I get why people want server rendering.
I feel like I've spent a lot of time
during this workshop saying you don't need
server rendering, it's not important.
That's not what I'm saying,
there are a lot of good reasons
to include server rendering.
I am not against server
rendering as a concept,
I'm against server rendering as a default.
I think that server rendering should
be opted into when you have an actual
reason to use it.
And at that point, it becomes incredible.
I love that this just works with
JavaScript disabled amazing.
Chef's kiss, love it, do it every time.
However, nothing else on this
website needs to be server rendered.
And therefore, I don't want to have
to opt in to server rendering for
my entire project, just for
this one form that needs server rendering.
So, before I forget cuz
that'll be confusing, later,
I'm gonna re-enable JavaScript.
And then when we click this,
it's, I got a pop up of some sort, cancel.
We were talking about you buy earlier.
Yeah, that's a great reason
not to use your buy.
Did you see that the alert got put under
the browser because the stack order
got screwed up.
So that's a fun,
that's a fun problem to get to solve.
Where are you going?
You come back, you came back,
and then you get out of there.
All right, good.
Okay, we're back to mostly normal here.
Okay, so now what we've got, is we've
got a pre-rendered newsletter page and
this whenever we submit it,
it's gonna work.
I'll do it one more time
now with the JavaScript on.
And same result,
it just posts to that page.
And then when we're done,
we hit start over and we start over.